Add documentation for filterComponentOptions (#77)
infinum/eightshift-docs: website/docs/basics/blocks-component-in-block.md

	)
);
```

### I want to limit which options are shown for components inside a block/component

Let's say you have a block that has a `Heading` component inside it.

The `Heading` has 10 text sizes and 5 colors, but for that block, only 2 colors and 3 text sizes are allowed.
To achieve this you must prepare your component to be able to use this feature:

> 1. Your component options must be named the same name as their attribute value. In the example, you can see that the options key for `typographySize` is the same name as in attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Your component options must be named the same name as their attribute value. In the example, you can see that the options key for `typographySize` is the same name as in the attributes.
```

```json
{
  "attributes": {
    "typographySize": {
      "type": "string",
      "default": "16-text-roman"
    },
    "typographyColor": {
      "type": "string",
      "default": "black",
      "variable": true,
      "color": true
    },
  },
  "options": {
    "typographySize": [
      {
        "label": "180 Display",
        "value": "180-default"
      },
      {
        "label": "120 Display",
        "value": "120-default"
      },
      {
        "label": "80 Display",
        "value": "80-default"
      },
      {
        "label": "52 Display",
        "value": "52-default"
      },
      {
        "label": "36 Text",
        "value": "36-text"
      }
    ],
    "typographyColor": [
      "black",
      "white",
      "grey100",
      "grey200"
    ]
  }
}
```

> 2. Each option in your component must have `getOptions` helper used in the prop that is used to provide options. Details about the helper can be found [here](helpers-javascript#getoptions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Every option in your component must use `getOptions` helper for the prop that is used to provide options. Details about the helper can be found [here](helpers-javascript#getoptions).
```

**SelectControl Example:**
```js
<SelectControl
  label={
    <>
      <Icon icon={icons.textSize} />
      {__('Text size', 'eightshift-boilerplate')}
    </>
  }
  value={typographySize}
  options={getOptions(manifest, componentName, 'size', options)}
  onChange={(value) => setAttributes({ [`${componentName}Size`]: value })}
/>
```

**ColorPaletteCustom Example:**
```js
<ColorPaletteCustom
  label={
    <>
      <Icon icon={icons.color} />
      {__('Color', 'eightshift-boilerplate')}
    </>
  }
  colors={getOptionColors(getOptions(manifest, componentName, 'color', options))}
  value={typographyColor}
  onChange={(value) => setAttributes({ [`${componentName}Color`]: value })}
/>
```

> 3. In the component/blocks that you are going to override options, you must provide an options prop that is going to override the default one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the component/blocks for which you are going to override the options, you must provide an options prop that is going to override the default one.
```

**heading-options.js**
```js
<HeadingOptions
  options={options}
  // ...
/>
```

> 4. In the component/blocks that you are going to override options, you must provide the override in the `manifest.json` by following the same naming as in the component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the component/blocks for which you are going to override options, you must provide the override in the `manifest.json` by following the same naming as in the component.
```

```json
{
  "options": {
    "headingSize": [
      "80-default",
      "52-default"
    ],
    "headingColor": [
      "black",
      "white"
    ]
  }
}
```

> An this is it you are now able to override options from the parent block/component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And this is it. You are now able to override the options from the parent block/component.
```

> Keep in mind that you can only override SelectControl, ColorPaletteCustom, and AlignmentToolbar.

### I want to only pass attributes to the component that I'm going to use

> At one point in time, we agreed on naming standards for all component attributes and that way we are sure that you wouldn't get any collisions when using multiple components. So we said it is ok to spread all attributes to the component and let the component handle what it needs. Well, that approach is ok but it can bite you in the a.. at the point that you least expect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At one point in time, we agreed on naming standards for all component attributes. That way we made sure that you wouldn't get any collisions when using multiple components. So we said it is ok to spread all attributes to the component and let the component handle what it needs. Well, that approach is ok but it can bite you in the a.. at the point that you least expect.
```

That is why we created this [props helper](helpers-javascript#props).

As described in [this chapter](blocks-component-in-block#i-want-to-limit-which-options-are-shown-for-components-inside-a-blockcomponent) you must follow the attributes naming convention and use `components` key in the block/component manifest.

> **Lets set a layout for this example:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Let's set a layout for this example:**
```

> **Lets set a layout for this example:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Let's set a layout for this example:**
```

* components
  * heading
  * typography
* custom
  * heading

You have block `heading` that uses component `heading` and that component uses another component called `typography`.

> We are putting only necessary stuff in the example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are putting only relevant code in the example:
```

**Block Heading manifest.json:**
```json
{
  "blockName": "heading",
  "components": {
    "heading": "heading"
  },
}
```

> In the `components` key, you must provide components that you are going to be using in this block. There are more options at the beginning of this chapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `components` key, you must provide components that you are going to be using in this block. There are more options in the example at the beginning of this chapter.
```

import { HeadingEditor as HeadingEditorComponent } from '../../../components/heading/components/heading-editor';
import manifest from './../manifest.json';

export const HeadingEditor = ({attributes, setAttributes}) => {
  const {
    blockName,
  } = manifest;

  const {
    blockClass,
  } = attributes;

  return (
    <div className={blockClass}>
      <HeadingEditorComponent
        setAttributes={setAttributes}
        {...props(attributes, blockName, '', true)}
      />
    </div>
  );
};
```

In JavaScript, you spread the results of the props helper.

**Block heading.php:**
```php
<?php

/**
 * Template for the Heading Block view.
 *
 * @package Redesign
 */

use Redesign\Blocks\Blocks;
use RedesignVendor\EightshiftLibs\Helpers\Components;

$manifest = Components::getManifest(__DIR__);
$blockName = $attributes['blockName'] ?? $manifest['blockName'];

$blockClass =  Components::checkAttr('blockClass', $attributes, $manifest);

?>

<div class="<?php echo esc_attr($blockClass); ?>">
  <?php
  echo Components::render( // phpcs:ignore WordPress.Security.EscapeOutput.OutputNotEscaped
    'heading',
    Blocks::props($attributes, $blockName, '', true)
  );
  ?>
</div>
```

> In PHP you just provide the results of the props helper. As you can see in the [props helper docs](helpers-javascript#props) you must provide the fourth parameter to be `true` to distinguish is this block or component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In PHP you just provide the results of the props helper. As you can see in the [props helper docs](helpers-javascript#props) you must provide the fourth parameter to be `true` to distinguish if this is a block or a component.
```

> Now let's see how the `Component heading` looks like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's see how the `Component heading` looks like.
```

> **Component Heading manifest.json:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Heading component manifest.json:**
```

```json
{
  "componentName": "heading",
  "components": {
    "heading": "typography"
  },
}
```

> In `Component heading` we are using the `typography` component but we are not using the default name but rather we are changing the attribute names from `typography` to `heading`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `heading` component we are using the `typography` component but we are not using the default component name. Instead, we are changing the attribute name from `typography` to `heading`.
```

**Component heading-editor.js:**

*The same is for options or toolbar components!*

```js
import React from 'react';
import { props } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/editor';
import { TypographyEditor } from './../../typography/components/typography-editor';
import manifest from './../manifest.json';
 
export const HeadingEditor = (attributes) => {
  const {
    setAttributes,
    componentName = manifest.componentName,
    blockClass,
  } = attributes;

  return (
    <>
      <TypographyEditor
        selectorClass={componentName}
        blockClass={blockClass}
        setAttributes={setAttributes}
        {...props(attributes, 'typography', componentName)}
      />
    </>
  );
};
```

> The difference here is that you don't need to provide the fourth parameter here because this is a component. In this example, you are swiping attribute names so we must provide the target component name as a `second parameter and the current component name as a `third` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The difference here is that you don't need to provide the fourth parameter because this is a component. In this example, you are swapping attribute names so we must provide the target component name as a `second` parameter and the current component name as a `third` parameter.
```

> **Component heading.php**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**heading.php part**
```

```php
<?php

use Redesign\Blocks\Blocks;
use RedesignVendor\EightshiftLibs\Helpers\Components;

$manifest = Components::getManifest(__DIR__);
$componentName = $attributes['componentName'] ?? $manifest['componentName'];

$blockClass = $attributes['blockClass'] ?? '';

echo Components::render( // phpcs:ignore WordPress.Security.EscapeOutput.OutputNotEscaped
  'typography',
  array_merge(
    [
      'selectorClass' => 'heading',
      'blockClass' => $blockClass,
    ],
    Blocks::props($attributes, 'typography', $componentName)
  )
);
```

> In PHP is similar to what it was in the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PHP part looks similar to the JS block part.
```

**Typography**

There is nothing special that you need to do in the last component in the tree other than following the attributes naming convention.

> **To sum-up**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Summing it all up**
```

Block:
* `Components` key in the `manifest.json` is used to provide/change the attribute names on the block registration process.
* `Props helper` will provide all the attributes used in the block and add it will follow the dependency tree to the end so all attributes from the children components will also be provided as a result of this helper.

Components:

> * `Components` key in the `manifest.json` is used to determine the dependency tree when passing the attributes from parent to the children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Components` key in the `manifest.json` is used to determine the dependency tree when passing the attributes from parent to children.
```

> * `Props helper` will provide only attributes that are used in the children's components recursively. The sam as props helper in the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Props helper` will provide only those attributes that are used in the children's components recursively. The same as props helper in the block.
```

	)
);
```

### I want to limit which options are shown for components inside a block

Let's say you have a block that has a `Heading` component inside it.

The `Heading` has 10 text sizes and 5 colors, but for that block only 2 colors and 3 text sizes are allowed.

With the `filterComponentOptions` helper you can limit which options are shown in the editor.

Implementing it is easy:

> 1) In your **block** manifest add a key inside `options` that contains all the options you want visible. Options that are not added will use all the options defined in the component's manifest.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In your **block** manifest add a key inside `options` that contains all the options you want visible. Options that are not added will use all the options defined in the component's manifest.
```

   For example:
   ```json
   "options" : {
	   "heading": {
		   "colors": [
			   "primary",
			   "black"
		   ],
		   "sizes": [

> 			   "xxl",

Reviewer 4: maybe to set the example with options from the heading component in our frontend libs.

			   "xl"
		   ]
	   }
   }
   ```

> 	❗️ **Note**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> In case your option is an object with a `label` and a `value` key (eg. when you have something in a select menu), you only need to provide the `value`.
```

> 	In case your option is an object with a `label` and a `value` key (eg. when you have something in a select menu), you only need to provide the `value`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

2. In the **components** your block uses, inside the `<component-name>-editor.js` file:

	- Import the helper from Frontend Libs
	`import { filterComponentOptions } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/editor'`,

	- Call the helper function
	`filterComponentOptions(attributes, componentName, options)`

		- `options` should be defined in the component, if not import them from the manifest

		- `componentName` is usually already defined, if not you can get it from the manifest - `manifest.componentName`

3. In your **block**'s editor, add the key to the child component's editor

> 	For example:

Reviewer 3: remove unnecessary indentations here

Author: I wanted it to be aligned with the text, like this:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/77000136/108189367-ee845f00-7110-11eb-9eb9-d5a5040a4ad4.png)

When I remove the indent, in my preview it looks like this:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/77000136/108189433-065be300-7111-11eb-90c9-b3161dd4022d.png)

Does the parser for the docs work the same way?

	```js
	<HeadingOptions
		{...attributes}
		headingOptions={manifest.options.heading}
		setAttributes={setAttributes}
	/>
	```
	

> 	❗️ **Note**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> 	Make sure the attribute is named as `<component-name>Options` (e.g. `headingOptions`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> Make sure the attribute is named as `<component-name>Options` (e.g. `headingOptions`).
```
